And we're back now talking about special methods also known as magic methods these are things behind
the scenes that are all Dunner methods.
Start with two underscores and with two underscores that work some magic in Python.
So in this example the plus sign 8 plus two ints versus a plus to the strings.
How is that working.
How does Python know what to do.
And it comes down to the fact this plus sign operator behind the scenes is actually resulting in this
Dunder pad method a magic method a special method that's called and it's called On this first opera
and so in this case eight the integer and the method add is defined inside of the integer class and
it says all right if I'm being added to another integer then we should return our sum.
First is on the String instance the double underscore add magic method is defined.
And it says if I'm being added to a string then concatenate the two of us if I'm being added to an integer
you know throw an error.
So we can actually go and write our own ad and we're going to do that in just a moment.
For a human class so we can add two humans together.
But other than add we've actually seen some of these like Lenn when I introduced back in the built in
function section I talked about Lenn the built in function and how it uses the Dondre line you know
double underscore magic thing.
So we can define our own line like this on a human.
So when I call line on code which is a human and not six inches tall I don't know why the slides at
60.
Anyway let's say I'm six inches tall.
That's going to be my length that's returned here.
And you know we could define whatever we wanted.
We've also seen that by default when we printout you know an instance of any class we define we get
this really gross looking thing.
We can use representation method define that and whatever we put in there the representation will be
called whenever we print it.
And we've also already seen that.
OK.
So the point of all of this is to show you that there are these built in Dunder special magic whatever
methods that Python uses is behind the scenes that we can actually add to our own classes implement
them so that our classes can play nice with the rest of Python.
So I'm on the documentation and there's a section called special method names.
There's a bunch of them.
I mean init is one there's.
Well I'll point out some of them.
We've already seen this one representation.
There's also a string and format.
These all kind of have to do with representation.
There is a slight difference.
Representation is supposed to be sort of a Python expression something that could be turned into Python.
So it's actually not supposed to be a string like hello I am a human.
It's supposed to be more pythonic versus not as TR under the under method we can put whatever we want
in there there's no expectation that a return of old Python expression but really it just gets complicated.
It doesn't matter.
We can use with everyone anyway.
There's other things like Lenn that we've seen.
There's keep going down here reversed to return the reversed version of an iterator.
Then here's the math once.
Add subtract Moel and see true divide power.
Basically you can define how all of these should work.
And these are used behind the scenes of course so we're not really doing anything new.
We're just adding these methods to whatever classes we define.
So let's do that now with.
Let's start with ADD and line and some of the basics.
Here I have an empty file.
I'll define a class called human and we'll define our.
It would be very simple.
We need self have a first or last name and an age and then we'll just set self-taught first equals first
then let's do self-taught last equals last and self-taught age equals age.
OK let's start with the very basics representation.
We've already seen this.
And let's just return a string and string with the first and last name.
Human named.
And then do we have self-doubt first self-doubt last.
Just like that.
And now we should be able to make a new human do J equals human Jenny Larson like that and she is 47.
And now if I print J
we get human named Jenny Larson.
OK so let's review.
We can also do things like Lenn And how would we want to define the length of a human.
I don't know let's for now just return self-taught age.
So the length of time they've lived with that.
So now if I do print line of J.
We get 47 and if I hadn't done this and I tried to print the line of J.
Now we get an error because it says objects of type human has no length.
So it doesn't know what to do so we have to add this in if we want to be able to call Len on a human.
Next do something a bit more fun.
Let's do add.
OK so let's only worry about ADD between two humans.
So if we had one human to another special thing happens and a third human is born that's all I'll say
about that.
I don't want to get any bad reviews about that.
So in our version any two humans that are added together it should return a new human at zero years
old.
And let's just have it take the last name of the first human so it doesn't matter if it's a male or
female we're not getting into the politics of that and taking names.
But let's just say the first human.
So if we had J.
Plus and then we make another human called human a column K..
Kevin Jones who is 49.
OK so if I do J plus K we're going to take the last name so Larson will be a new human just born with
no no first name yet will set first name to be unnamed or something.
Or a newborn.
How about that newborn.
Larson is zero years old.
So all we would do we have to add self in self refers to whatever came first.
And then there is a second parameter which I all just call other.
It's the second thing thats being added.
And if we do this we can add a little check in if we really want to be fancy.
We could add a little check to make sure it's a human so see if other is a human because self is guaranteed
to be a human because this method is defined on human.
But we want to make sure that we're adding a human.
So is instance other human.
If that's the case we just return a new human where first is equal to.
Let's just go with newborn last is equal to self datt last.
So whatever you know J's name or the first human that's being added there their current last name and
age is zero.
OK and otherwise let's just return a string that says.
Technically I don't think Python wants to do this but just for our example will return a string that
says you can't add that OK.
So let's check it out now.
So we have Jane OK.
Let's do a print.
J plus K.
And on top of this if this works Jay post-K should return this new human and we should only see the
string representation of it so it should say human named newborn Larson.
Let's check it out.
There we go.
Sweet.
And we could you know check the age.
Let's do this human named aged self-taught age right there.
Now we get human names.
Newburn Larson aged zero.
Cool.
So we have additional working between two humans.
Fred tried to do J plus two for example we now get a string.
You can add that.
So that ad one more fun one we could do is multiply.
So the magic method for that is Moel.
So we'll do the same thing self and other.
So this would be you know what a multiplied J times 2.
Let's say that we want to return a list that are cloning humans.
So if I multiply a human by 2 it should be twins or triplets something like that.
So in this case self refers to the first operand and then other is the second one.
And we could just start super simple with return.
You are multiplying humans like that.
And if I print J times 2 we get you're multiplying humans.
So this is just a shortcut for then calling the magic more method wherever it's implemented.
In this case it's checking on human because it's on the left.
If I did switch it up and do two times Jay it's going to look on the INT for the mole method and it
doesn't find it and freaks out.
OK.
So the order definitely matters.
So what we want to do is it will be a bit of a tangent here.
We want to basically how many times other is in this case too.
We want to make two copies of Jei of self and we could just do a list comprehension for that and we
could we should start by checking if it's in an instance of it if is instance other this time we want
to and if that's the case then let's return we'll do a list comprehension and our list will just be
self for I don't know I in range either.
So it's just going to return self which is J in our case or whatever human.
Each time for I in range other.
So other is too.
So it should return to versions of self to JS analyst.
And let's just do an otherwise return can't multiply.
Let's check it out.
What do we get.
Human named Jenny Larson age 47 human named Toni Larson age 47.
So two of them and we're getting that because of the representation we set up.
It's worth noting.
Well first let me just try multiplying it by a letter for example we get can't multiply but it is worth
noting that the way this is set up these two or however many things let's do three and let's save it
to a variable this time let's say triplets equals Jey times three.
OK.
And if I just print triplets and before I do that let's try and change one of them was changed to the
middle one to triplets.
It's a list.
So I should be able to do 1 0 1 2 triplets one dot first should have a different first name.
See Jenny and they are identical triplets so let's go with Jessica.
So the second person in the second triplet should have the name Jessica.
But if I look at it they all say Jessica human name just close in human name just colors.
And what's happening is that these are all the exact same object.
We didn't make actual clones or copies.
They are identical and they're linked.
So when you make a change to one it's made and all of them.
So this list is just three references to the same thing because we're just returning self.
So this is where I'm getting into a tangent.
But if we did want to make this actually work with the functionality we want we want three copies we
can import from copy.
So this is a built in module you can import a method called to copy and then copy will do just pass
itself.
It will actually make a new copy a new space in memory for each copy so they are separate.
They'll start out looking the same but they're separate.
So we have to import it first.
And now if it's right now it did not need that.
If we try and change the second one's name to be Jessica there we go.
Human named Jenny Larson human named Jessica human named Jenny Larson.
So now we have triplets and they are all different.
So multiply is working.
And finally we could do a little longer math equation but if we did this we have k.
So let's do K plus J like this times 3.
So this is Kevin and Jessica having triplets.
So they do whatever they do and we get the ad which gives us a newborn 0 years old with the last name
of Kevin this time which is Jones and then we're multiplying that person that human by 3.
So we should get a list.
So let's do triplets equals K plus post-jail times three.
And then print triplets.
Let's come at this out.
And what do we get.
Here we go human named Newburn Jones age three weren't age 3 8 0 0 and 0 we get three of them.
OK.
So it's kind of fun.
We're now just coming up with all different math that we can apply to humans.
I will leave it at that because it gets a little grimmer when we talk about subtraction and dividing
up humans.
Not going to go into that.
So we have addition and modifying But the real lesson behind all of this is that there are these magic
methods and something like the plus side is going to call magic method special method Dunder and it's
going to look for that if it doesn't exist then it's going to throw an error if it does then it's up
to us to determine how it should work or it's up to the string implementation or int to decide how it
should work.